- You're working on a new project
and you want to send the project along to someone else,
so that they can try it.
But they don't need the whole Git-Repo.
Now what's a quick way to send them a specific folder
of a specific branch in a zip format?
I'll give you a couple of seconds to think about how
you would do something like this.
All right, so the command for taking care of this
is called git archive
and there's a few options that you can use.
So for example, you can specify a format
and it's really just zip or tar.
So normally you would just want to include it as a zip file.
It's also the default
and you can also specify a specific work tree
or a specific remote.
So this is actually pretty cool
because you can ask to zip a specific folder
of a remote branch automatically from your local folder.
So let's give this thing a try.
So I'm going to say, git archive
and I'm going to issue the minus O option.
With the O option you're just saying,
where do you want to put this file
and what do you want to call it?
So here, what I usually do is back up a folder
and then give this thing a name.
So I'll call it parallax.
And I know I want to use a zip file.
Now here, if you just do this
it's going to take the content
of the entire project and put it in this file
but you can also specify a specific branch.
So we can say, I want to get this
from the 02_02b branch,
if you want
if you have that branch on your project right now,
and then if you want to,
you can also just specify that it only copy
a specific folder in that specific branch.
And that's super powerful.
So to do that, you just specify two dashes.
And then the name of the folder
notice that we have the build folder
which is how my project is built out.
That way people are not getting all this other
configuration stuff that I have outside my build folder
but I can send somebody the content of whatever is in here
which is usually the website
that they might be able to open just in a browser.
All right, so let's go ahead and execute that command
and you can see that it just does it
it doesn't give you a lot of feedback.
Right, so let's take a look at our desktop
and you can see that the file is sitting right there.
If I double click on it and open it up
you'll see that it's just the contents of the build folder.
And as a matter of fact
it's just the contents of the build folder
at a specific branch compressed in a zip format.
Super easy to email that to somebody.
And you can even do this with remote files
just super powerful, because you don't even have to download
or clone the repo or fork the repo, or do any of that.
You can just send them a copy directly
from a remote location.